---
title: Opener Script
publishDate: 2 Feb 2024
description: 🚀 Improved my workflow with this bash script 💻
---

I wanted to share with you a script I've been using to streamline my workflow. I usually work on multiple projects at once and frequently switch between them. I needed a more efficient way to open them since using the graphical interface felt cumbersome and boring.

Every time I wanted to switch projects or open a new one, I had to go to the top menu, find the option to open a project, remember the project's name, and search for it in the file explorer. Honestly, it felt quite cumbersome to do this multiple times a day.

That's why I created this script, which allows me to do it with a simple command from the terminal. I can even open multiple projects at once with a single command.

However, I often forget the names of the projects since, as I mentioned, I work on more than 10 simultaneously. Thus, the version 2 of the script was born. I included the option to list the projects in the base directory. This way, I can remember their names. It even allows specifying up to what level of subfolder you want to traverse.

How to use it:

- 1️⃣ **Permissions:** `chmod +x ~/path-to-script/open-project.sh`
- 2️⃣ **Add to Path:** `export PATH=”path-to-scripts:$PATH”`
- 3️⃣ **Include alias in .zshrc:** `open(){ . open-project.sh $@ }`
- 4️⃣ **Refresh the terminal and type 'open'**

I have some ideas to improve my script and make it even more user-friendly. Perhaps a version 3.0 is coming in the future 😏

I hope this is useful for someone to improve their workflow and make working on multiple projects a little less tedious. Likewise, if anyone has any questions about the script, feel free to write me a private message or leave a comment 🙂

- 💻 [**GitHub**](https://github.com/N0M4D-D3V/bash-script)
